---
layout: post
title: "habits"
date: 2013-08-25 20:56
comments: true
categories: 
---

I recently finished [The Power of Habit][1], which talks about creating good
habits to enforce desirable attirbutes. For example, an attribute I
would love is to wake up earlier or learning French instead of checking Facebook. 
Most people don't know what they are doing or what type of habits they have. This got me thinking about
what types of habits I have right now.

## Good Habits

* Exercise: Crossfit five times a week
* Pomodoro: Daily Pomodoros to jumpstart my week
* Omnifocus and GTD workflow

## Bad Habits

The hard part is realizing what my bad habits are. It's almost like I need a
habit coach telling me what I'm doing that's terrible.

* Waking up later than I would like
* Derping around at night when I should just go to sleep
* Jumping on my computer and checking Facebook and HackerNews right when I wake
up
* Drinking Diet Soda
* Watching TV when I'm bored
* Constantly checking my email

## A Habit Experiment
I'm working on the "Cue, Habit, Reward" loop explained in the book. Essentially
it's a way to figure out what habit I have and what reward I get from doing my bad habit. Once I figure out
what to change, I can inject a desirable habit to achieve the same reward.

Right now I have a little experiment going on. I have a Google Doc spreadsheet with columns 
containing the habit I want to change, the reward I get from that habit and
other activities that might give me the same reward. After 5-10 minutes I write
down how I feel to see if I get the reward my body wants.

We'll see how this goes. This blog post is actually a habit I'm injecting in
the place of watching TV when I'm bored. I'm slowly working through the list
and figuring out ways to become more productive and full of great habits.

[1]: http://www.amazon.com/The-Power-Habit-What-Business/dp/1400069289
